It's extra only the Monday practices. Again, this is, of course, according to him in the
Bama Nyingti, or the Chetsun Nyingti, it is a Monday, but it's not exactly a regular Monday
as we go through. So this is an extended Monday, and this is taking raffles, and three raffles,
and visualize the object with refuge and pray according to the pit instructions. So that
is, now we go to the, now to the, among these, there is five different things, one after another,
and the refuge in the bodhisattva, and the practice, register of practices, and the purification
or accumulate the merit practices, and then guru yoga practices, those are five different
points, one after another is explaining that all is totally connected to the Dzogchen practices.
But again, to understand all this, and then we go to the, to begin the raffles. Raffles
generally, again, this is the absolute raffles, absolute raffles. There is the raffles according
to Dzogchen teaching or the Nyungma teaching, as many of you know, those are called outer
raffles, inner raffles, signified raffles, and the absolute raffles, or object with raffles.
So outer object with raffles, inner object with raffles, signified object with raffles,
and then absolute object with raffles. So we go those kind of, like, poor ways to kind
of understand all different levels. First, what we, the raffles, the cause of raffles
and is the devotion and the path. That is really the cause. That is the condition of
the taking of raffles. That is, have to be, to also Dzogchen meditation, or this absolute
raffles. So every level of the raffles is like devotions and fads, that is. And again,
we discuss daily, and of course, we all know that. Devotions are so important. With all
the devotion and fads, there is no practice welcome at all, at all come. And for those
reasons, Great Master, I talk the quotation from Great Master Nagarjuna said that devotion
is the path, is number one, when we begin with practices. That have to be. And then
second is more important is the wisdom that Nagarjuna said. Among these two, devotion and
wisdom, which is more important. Wisdom is more important, he said. But even though wisdom
is more important, before the wisdom, devotion have to come. With all the devotion, then
even you have the wisdom, it won't walk. It won't, will not make that happen. So devotion
is so important. For that reason, a great teacher, Brother Kekemen, also mentioned so many in
the teaching said, devotion is like, like, as like will. Devotion is like, well, turn,
turn the moving things. It's like will. Devotion is like feet, or put, feet to walk, walk.
And devotion is like hand, together and things. Without the feet, you won't go anywhere. Without
the hand, we won't pick up any things. So this devotion is so really so important. Among
the seven spiritual treasures, Dharma treasure, devotion is the post. There's seven treasures
of the Dharma. Dharma in the devotion or the ped is post treasures. When you have the devotions,
when you have the ped, that is the treasure. You open a door of the treasure, all the good
spiritual call that will follow after that. And we combine that with the wisdom. Then
really it makes perfect. So therefore, devotion is also in this case, devotion is very cause
of the taking rafujis. And then also in the teaching, the taking rafuji is seeing the
good call or call letters of the Buddha Dharma Sangha, then devotion. Who will see that? That
is the wisdom. The wisdom will see the good call of the Buddha Dharma Sangha because when
you have the devotee and then you see and then it makes sense, sense to take the rafujis.
So then we take the rafujis. And when we take rafujis, according to Buddhism and whenever
you know, there are three different levels of the rafujis and those generally explain
them. Those are the, maybe I'll translate it. And it's very easy to say three individuals,
or three groups of the individuals. First in groups of individuals, second in groups
of the individuals, third in groups of the individuals. Those are also named small, middle,
and big. So small is kind of every individual. And every individual is in people what they
want. They like to have happy, peaceful, joy, kind of good performance in this lifetime.
Kind of like to see that. And to do that, that fulfill. And then many people also have kind
of like more connected with the Buddha Dharma Sangha. Oh, I like to take rafujis. I like
to practice dharma. I like to kind of like take rafujis Buddha Dharma Sangha because
it will fulfill my wishes. I will become quite successful. I will become rich, rich and quite
well known. And they don't think of any other kind of enlightenment or anything. But the
fulfillment in these lives, this of course Buddhism, all the following the Buddhism.
So those first group of the individuals, they just have kind of in a way, average attitude,
and then kind of protect rafujis. When you practice, when you go to temples, and then
I make little offerings, and incense, about a limb offerings, offerings, do pulsations,
that will make kind of, remove the obstacles, the hindrance and troubles, and fulfill my
wishes and I'll become quite successful. And it will make my family or myself all happy
and all that things, put kind of that much goal, then take rafujis and Buddha Dharma
Sangha. That is called average, general, regal guru and also in teaching method, small kind
of way of thinking of the groups. The second individual guru is then group that they like
to be more bigger kind of regions, or I don't like to in generally samsara. Samsara, well
samsara, joy, happiness, don't really have any meaning. To me it makes more trouble difficulties.
And I like to kind of get out of the samsara and therefore I like to take contrary to the
take rafujis and practice dharma, and with Buddha Dharma Sangha. I can't have that attitude
toward, it's called medayoka or medium interviews. And who are those? Those are in the Buddha
teachings. I mean of course all teaching Buddha teaching mentioned is like sharaka yana, sharaka
in the pati buddhas. Their attitude toward, they don't think any other thing, but I don't
like the samsara. I don't like all these troubles, the difficulties, so many disappointments,
so many kind of ups and going, all that. It's just all that is caused by the negative emotions,
the troubles, ego-clinging, and for that reason I'm going to practice meditate, the ego-less
in the state, meditate and like to get out of the samsara, get ara-thahud, and do practice
meditate and all that. And then practice and they reach the ara-thahud or pati buddhayana,
but the buddhayana which themselves reach in, become the pre from the samsara, pre from
the difficulties. Those are the second medayogal practitioners and the teaching is it. And
the third one is a big audience. That is then, it's called the mahayana practitioners. Mahayana
practitioners every day are thinking that in the samsara has the troubles. Samsara has
the difficulty challenging. They also say that they need to prefer the peaceful life, joy,
peace, happiness, that, but not just the only thing about them. They're thinking for all living
because everyone they need to have a happy life, long life, good health, joy, peace, and all that.
And also everyone needs to pray for the suffering, difficult troubles. But to prefer everyone there
desire and a wish I like to get to the buddhahud in life so I can benefit for every month to
propose their goal and wish and with that attitude and then have the courage to come in best upon
the
compassion and wisdom and then take the rafuj in the buddha dharma sangha. So those are like three
different ways of taking rafuj. And we all as lemahayana, so we're thinking take rafuj,
to take rafuj in the buddha dharma sangha and the same purpose to prove all the suffer,
people's obeings from the suffering and the difficult troubles and get the enlightenment
to benefit it and for that reason I'm going to take rafuj and I'm going to practice meditate
and pray everyone enlightenment, bring enlightenment. How long I'm going to take rafuj?
And that is I'm going to take rafuj until I reach the buddhahud. I will take rafuj.
It's not measured by this life or some some kind of different statement but until I reach the
buddhahud, enlightenment, I take rafuj. So that is general take rafuj. And then buddha we all know,
buddha is the buddha kyakya munis but there is all so many other buddhas. So many other buddhas
and then buddha is also known as total enlightenment. From all the all the obscurations,
negativities, buddha is a wisdom, compassion, loving kindness and that is really the buddha.
But then there is of course many more details and all different three guys, four guys, five guys
and
so forth and all that. But anyway it's buddha. It's total enlightenment. That means no more
obscurations, no more negativities and love and compassion for all living beings. From now until
everyone is reaching enlightenment. And the teaching is then all Mahayana teaching, Dokhi
teaching, Elvide teaching, according to Mahayana particularly Vaidyayana practice and all the
teachings, those are the teachings that. And the teaching is also generally there is two teachings,
scripture teaching and a realization practice of meaning of that teachings.
Sakurvedji teachings are appeared in the book poems that we all know. Most of the time we refer
those as the teachings but really teaching according to in the teachings, really teaching
is the meaning of those practice. That is really the really teaching dharma dharma. And who hold
that? Hold by the individual practitioners keeping that that and pose them what that teaching for
example, a word and negativities. When you read that book, that is the external teachings,
dharmas, but really teaching is when you understand that a word and negativity,
the meaning that you apply, the individual applying that a word and negativity by body speak mind.
That is the really real teaching. That is in what I teach you called Dokhi teaching,
realization teaching, meaning teaching, scripture teaching is the outside these books and all that.
Paridhi teaching is the one you hold up that. That is the real teachings and real teachings of the
Vinaya is what? Not just a book, really teaching is the discipline.
Vinaya teaching explain the discipline teachings or morality teaching. That is the real teaching.
Tokkuchu in Advaidya, Tokkuchu or maybe realization dharma, the practice of dharma
and the Abhidharma, sorry, suttara teaching, the books, of course, those are teachings,
but really teaching is the concentration meditation. When you hold that is the individual
one who keep that they're keeping that and then wisdom. Abhidharma is called the meaning of the
Abhidharma is the wisdom. The real teaching is the wisdom. When you keep up that, as you learned,
learned from the book and keeping up that, activating that, then they become known as holder
of the dharmas, holder of the dharmas and then Vayayana teaching and so forth, all that, that,
so that and then Sangha members, of course, you all know, are practitioners, all the Sangha members
who was practitioners and who are also Sangha members who is keeping up those meaning of the
teaching to the heart and the mind, not just the name, but keeping up that with courage,
commitment, joy, determination, loyalty, and the devotion of head,
pad, keeping up that teaching to the heart until we become the enlightenment. Keeping up,
that's called the Sangha members. So those all are object of Sangha members, object of, sorry,
object of rafuja for us, outer object of rafuja. Then inner object of rafuja is then object of rafu
ja.